Codebook QCCA4.xlsx

> Country: The country column contains the population of cases under study. 
> Year: The year column informs the year in which the intrastate episode of violence begun.
> Outcome: Aggravation of violence. Here I asses whether an episode of violence has aggravated (through the mechanisms posited in the PRIO Natural Resource Conflict Dataset). As a calibration rule, I compared the number of casualties in the years leading to and post-aggravation, to determine when the peak of violence occurred. I also leveraged data from the UCDP Non-State Conflict Dataset to confirm the aggravation/ the lack thereof. A “0” represents a non-aggravation of the conflict. A “1” represents an aggravation. 
> ECC= To measure the level of exposure to climate change, I use the Physical Vulnerability to Climate Change Index (PVCCI) (Feindouno, Guillaumont, & Simonet, 2020). The PVCCI measures key structural and/or physical impacts of climate change that may affect local populations. It serves as a composite indicator that measures exposure to shocks conditional on their magnitude. I have converted the scores to binary indicators, while the impact of exposure to climate change in the region is treated comparatively. In the absence of data going back to the early 1990s, as well as aggregated fine-grained time-series data linking exposure to climate change at a detailed level, I calibrated countries comparatively by first creating an average for the subset of African countries studied and then converting the score to ’1’ - for countries above the average showing climate impact effects, and ’0’ - for those below the expected regional average.
> EF= HIGH ETHNIC FRACTIONALISATION. I use the definition of ethnic fractionalisation proposed by Dražanová (2020) in QoG dataset (https://www.gu.se/en/quality-government/qog-data/data-downloads/standard-dataset), which is: "the probability that two randomly selected people from a given country belong to different such groups. The variable thus ranges from 0 (perfectly homogeneous) to 1 (highly fragmented)". Binary indicators have been created during the calibration in the same way: 1- for highly fragmented cases, 0-ethnically homogeneous countries. 
> RS= LOW RELATIVE STATENESS. I use Møller and Skaaning (2010)’s conceptualisation of stateness as having the ’twin attributes of a monopoly on the use of force within a sovereign territory and a basic agreement on citizenship’ (p.1). I define low stateness as the absence of one of the two attributes, which in practice can be equated with the fragility of the institutional framework charged with maintaining the attributes. I use the Quality of Governance (QoG) database to measure relatively low state fragility. Cases with attributes of relative state fragility score a ’1’, while states lacking either or both attributes score a ’0’.
> RD= HIGH REGIME DURABILITY. I draw on QoG’s definition of regime durability, where regime durability is understood as ’the number of years since the last regime change (defined by a three-point change in the polity score over a period of three years or less) or the end of a transition period defined by the absence of stable political institutions (denoted by a standardised authority score)’ (p.1164). A “0” represents a regime that is below the average duration in the region, a “1” represents an above average regime, duration-wise.
> RC= CONFLICT OVER SCARCE RESOURCES.  Using PRIO Natural Resource Conflict Dataset, which looks at whether natural resources have affected the conflict through the mechanisms of interest. Here, a “0” has been attributed to cases where natural resources were not central to the dynamics, and a “1” where it did.
> HPO= HIGH POLITICAL OPPORTUNITY STRUCTURE. I use the theory and conceptualisation of political opportunity structures proposed by Skrede Gleditsch and Ruggeri (2010). They argue that understanding political opportunity structures as phases and look at regular and irregular leaders’ entries and exists to and from power (p. 302). The mechanism by which they link the “security with which leaders hold office to the risk of civil war” lies behind the challengers’ (or rebel groups’) strategic use of violence when they perceive a potentially successful outcome (p. 302). I leverage data from Archigos: A Database of Political Leaders to assess whether irregular transitions occurred in a 24-month window before or after intrastate conflict. The argument for using such a window is that for opportunity structures to be exploited, both the challenger side and the state side need some time to prepare. In terms of measurement, ’1’ represents a case where an irregular entry or exist to power occurred in a 24-months window before or after the intrastate episode of violence, and ’0’ represents the absence thereof.
> HTM: TERRITORIALLY MOTIVATED CONFLICTS. a final condition I consider is whether the conflict had a strong territorial component. To assess this, I rely on individual empirical information about the cases and look at public speeches made by either government officials or leaders of insurgent groups. I use content analysis to assess whether the conflict had a de facto territorial dimension or was framed as such. I deliberately don’t distinguish between the two, because whether territory was leveraged by governments or was de facto relevant and central to the conflict is beyond the scope of my current research. To cor- roborate my intensive case studies, I rely on data from the UCDP Non-State Conflict Dataset, which includes information on whether any conflict was driven by incompatibility over territory. Thus, a ’1’ represents a case where territory played a crucial role in the intrastate episode of violence, and a ’0’ represents cases where territory was not a central feature of the conflict.










 

